\."#################################################################
\."$Id: mib.1 663 2003-12-19 16:39:10Z garlick $
\."by Andrew C. Uselton <uselton2@llnl.gov> 
\."#################################################################
\."  Copyright (C) 2006 The Regents of the University of California.
\."  Produced at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (cf, DISCLAIMER).
\."  Written by Andrew Uselton (uselton2@llnl.gov>
\."  UCRL-CODE-222725
\."  
\."  This file is part of Mib, a remote power management program.
\."  For details, see <http://www.llnl.gov/linux/mib/>.
\."  
\."  Mib is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
\."  the terms of the GNU General Public License (as published by the Free
\."  Software Foundation) version 2, dated June 1991.
\."  
\."  Mib is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT 
\."  ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or 
\."  FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License 
\."  for more details.
\."  
\."  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
\."  with Mib; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
\."  59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA.
\."#################################################################
.\"
.TH Mib 1 "Release 1.9.7" "LLNL" "Mib"
.SH NAME
mib \- An MPI I/O Benchmark
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mib
.I "[-option]..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
Perform I/O and report on the rates observed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I "-b [<granularity>], --random_reads [<granularity>]"
Perform a seek to a random location in the file before each read.  The optional
ganularity constrains the targets of the seek to offsets in the file equal to
multiples of that value (default no seeks).  
.TP
.I "-d, --directio"
Open test files with the \fIO_DIRECT\fR flag to minimize cache effects.
.TP
.I "-E, --show_environment"
Show environment of test in output (default false).
.TP
.I "-F, --force"
By default,
.B mib
will not perform I/O to any file system type (as returned by statfs in the f_type 
field) but Lustre.  This is a safety feature.  Sending benchmark I/O, especially 
inadvertently, to an NFS mounted home directory can amount to a denial of service
attack and make the perpetrator very unpopular.  If that is really what is wanted
then this option will turn off the safety check.
.TP
.I "-I, --show_intermediate_values"
Show intermediate values in output (default false).
.TP
.I "-h, --help"
Print a help message and exit.
.TP
.I "-H, --show_headers"
Show headers for the fields in the results line (default false).
.TP
.I "-l <count>, --call_limit <count>"
Issue no more than <count> system calls (default 4096).  The limit is separately 
enforced for the write phase and the read phase.
.TP
.I "-L <seconds>, --time_limit <seconds>"
Do not issue new system calls after <seconds> seconds. Again, limits are per phase 
for write and read phases (default 60 seconds).
.TP
.I "-M, --no_mpi "
.B mib
is usually run under a resource manager (eg. SLURM) that sets up an MPI context.  
It will run without, though, either locally or via a remote launcher (eg. pdsh).
.B mib
detects if MPI is available and uses it if it is.  If MPI is available and one wants
to test the non-MPI behavior this switch will do that.
.TP
.I "-n, --new "
Create new files if files were already present.  It will always create new files 
if none were present (default false, i.e. reuse any files that already exist).
.TP
.I "-p <profile>, --profiles <profile>"
Output system call timing profiles to 
.I <profile>.write
and 
.I <profile>.read 
(default off).  A profile is a text file with one line per system call issued and 
one column per task.  Each entry is the MPI global clock reading for the time when
the given system call returned in the given task.  All timing values are relative 
to a barrier-coordinated moment at the beginning of the test.  Since some tasks may
issue more system calls than others the remaining entries are set to zero.  At this 
time, 
.B mib
will not generate profile files without MPI.
.TP
.I "-P, --show_progress"
Show progress bars during testing (default false).  This just prints a series of 
asterisk characters in a best effort to show the progress of the test.  Due to 
delays in the system calls and buffering from the remote tasks the bars may or 
may not follow the progress closely.
.TP
.I "-r, --remove"
Remove files when done (default false).
.TP
.I "-R, --read_only"
Only perform the read test (default false).
.TP
.I "-s <size>, --call_size <size>"
Use system calls of this size (default 512k).  Numbers may use abreviations 
k, K, m, or M.  Both k and K are interpreted as 1024, and m and M are k*k.
.TP
.I "-S, --show_signon"
Show signon message, including date, program name, and version number.
.TP
.I "-t <dir>, --test_dir <dir>"
Required. I/O transactions to and from files in <dir>.  If a task number is 
available from MPI or SLURM that value is used as the <index> in the target 
file name for the task as follows: <dir>/mibData.<index>.  If no <index> can
be discerned an attempt is made to use the hostname in a similar fashion.  For
writes, the <index> directly corresponds to the task number.  For reads, a 
formula attempts to make the read target as distant as possible from the 
write target.  This makes the reads exercise lock acquisition and release and
cache flushing.
.TP
.I "-V, --version"
Print the version and exit.
.TP
.I "-W, --write_only"
Only perform the write test.  If -R and -W are both present both tests 
will run, but that's the default anyway (default false).

.SH OPERATION
When invoked with a context enabling MPI operations (via 
.I srun
for intance)
.B mib
writes and the reads files, one per task, reports on the 
observed data rates, and optionally
reports on the timings of the system calls.  For details refer to the 
discussion in 
.I /usr/share/doc/mib-<version>/mib.pdf.

.SH FILES
<profile>.write
.br
<profile>.read
.SH ORIGIN
Developed by Andrew  Uselton <useton2@llnl.gov> on LLNL's Linux 
clusters.  This software is open source and distributed under
the terms of the Gnu GPL.  

